### Budget spilovers and fiscal policy interdependence
>### **1.introduction**
>-  another important determinant of the state and local gov:  
the expenditures of neighbouring gov
>- jurisdiction spending levels also affect each other
>- "neighbour" refers more to economically and demographically similar states.
>>layout:
2.simple model
3.empirical specifiction.+ a little econometrical problems
4.annual observations
5.results
Conclusion:a state's level of per capita expenditure is positively and significantly affected by the expenditure of its neighbours;
The failure to include neighbours' expenditures in the equation leads to substantially different estimated effects of other important explanatory valuables such as federal grants and age stucture of the population.

>### **2.theoretical considerations**
$$V^i=V^i[Y^i-T^i,G^i;\Psi^i]$$
$Y^i$:per capita in state i
$T^i$:tax burden of each consumer
$G^i$:the level of piblic services provided
$\Psi^i$:vector of exogenous condition that affect the utilities of residents.
$$T^i\geq G^i$$
Example of spiltover:
one state's expnditures on roads may provide benefits to the residents of neighboring states.
care about poverty levels in other states,derive utility from other states' welfare expenditure.

>### **3.empirical implementation**
>- **3.1 Econnometric model**
$E_{it}$:state i's per capita expenditures in year t
characteristics $X_{it}$
the expenditures of its neighbors:$E_{jt}$
model:
$$E_{it}=X_{it}\beta+\phi E_{jt}+u_{it}$$
$\beta,\phi$ are parameters,$u_{it}$ is a random error
$$E_{it}=X_{it}\beta+\phi E_{jt}+u_{it}+f_t+h_t$$
$f_t,h_t$:individual and year effects.
>- *3.1.1 multiple neighbors*
impact of state j on state i's spending depend on complementarity;
depend on extent similar population.
<u>*weight importance:*</u>
$$\sum^{n}_{j=1}\omega_{ij}E_{jt}$$
in matrix form:
$$E_t=\phi W E_t + X_t \beta + u_t$$
$E_t$ :in year t,48 states' expenditures
$X_t$ :48Xk year and state effects
W :48X48 weighting matrix
>- *3.1.2 correlated random shocks*
**apprantly** exist correlation. 
$$u_t = \rho W u_t+\epsilon_t$$
$\epsilon$:an idiosyncratic error,uncorrelated
>- *3.1.3 simulataneous estimation*

>- **3.2 specify the weight matrix**
$$W = \alpha W^{income}+(1-\alpha)W^{Geography}$$

>### **4.Data**
>### **5.Results**
>- **5.2 categories of spending**
>seperate for four different types of expenditures.
>>health and human servisce 
administration
highways
education

>### **6.Summary**
>states gov are likely to be influenced by actions of neighboring states
neighbour 1$$\Uparrow$ $\rightarrow$ our state 0.7\$$\Uparrow$
>**factor of similarity**: 
>> % of black 
>>....
$\approx$  country$\rightarrow$country

